Many information scientists are concerned with the operation of document retrieval systems serving scientists in various fields.  The scientists served by these systems are often members of what have been called invisible colleges, groups of scientists in frequent communication with one another and involved with highly specialized subject matters.  Often such groups are considered to share an intellectual perspective regarding this subject matter, which is sometimes referred to as a paradigm.  The purpose of this paper is to show how it is possible to identify paradigms, using the techniques of citation analysis.  I will operationalize the notion of paradigm as a 'consensual structure of concepts in a field.' Suppose we have obtained a set of papers pertaining to some topic.  Already knowing something about the field, we read each text and mark passages in which certain specific concepts are used or discussed.  For example, we might find that a concept designated 'A' appears in some sub-set of the papers.  Suppose further that we identify those papers in which concepts 'A' and 'B' are used together in the same papers in a certain specified manner. Clearly not all concepts will combine in a natural way, and not all authors combining concepts 'A' and 'B' will do so in the same way, though some predominant mode may emerge.  For a set of n concepts their structure is given by the totality of admissible combinations of concepts taken from two to n at a time.  The frequency with which a given combination occurs in the sample of papers on the topic is a measure of the degree of consensus regarding the particular concept combination within the corpus.  For concepts taken two at a time, the structure can be displayed as a graph with concepts as nodes and the relations between them represented as lines (arcs) connecting the nodes.  This definition of concept structure is similar to the semantic network of artificial intelligence except that in our approach a measure of consensus weights each arc of the graph.